feat(explorer): add config for custom sort/map/filter functions (#479)
jackyzha0/quartz: docs/features/explorer.md

Want to customize it even more?

- Removing table of contents: remove `Component.Explorer()` from `quartz.layout.ts`
  - (optional): After removing the explorer component, you can move the [[table of contents | Table of Contents]] component back to the `left` part of the layout

> - Changing `sort`, `filter` and `map` behavior: explained in [[explorer#Advanced customization]]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Changing `sort`, `filter` and `map` behavior: explained in [[#Advanced customization]]
```

```

> [!tip]
> You can check if a `FileNode` is a folder or a file like this:
>
> ```ts
> if (node.file) {
>   // node is a file
> } else {
>   // node is a folder
> }
> ```

## Basic examples

These examples show the basic usage of `sort`, `map` and `filter`.

### Use `sort` to put files first

Using this example, the explorer will alphabetically sort everything, but put all **files** above all **folders**.

```ts title="quartz.layout.ts"
Component.Explorer({
  sortFn: (a, b) => {
    if ((!a.file && !b.file) || (a.file && b.file)) {
      return a.name.localeCompare(b.name)
    }
    if (a.file && !b.file) {
      return -1
    } else {
      return 1
    }
  },
})
```

### Change display names (`map`)

Using this example, the display names of all `FileNodes` (folders + files) will be converted to full upper case.

```ts title="quartz.layout.ts"
Component.Explorer({
  mapFn: (node) => {
    node.name = node.name.toUpperCase()
  },
})
```

### Remove list of elements (`filter`)

Using this example, you can remove elements from your explorer by providing a list of folders/files using the `list` array.

```ts title="quartz.layout.ts"
Component.Explorer({
  filterFn: (node) => {

>     // list containing names of everything you want to filter out
>     const list = ["authoring content", "building your", "tags", "hosting"]
> 
>     for (let listNodeName of list) {
>       if (listNodeName.toLowerCase() === node.name.toLowerCase()) {
>         return false // Found a match, so return false to filter out the node
>       }
>     }
>     return true // No match found, so return true to keep the node

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // list containing names of everything you want to filter out
    const omit = new Set(["authoring content", "building your", "tags", "hosting"])
    return omit.has(node.name.toLowerCase())
```

  sortFn: sampleSortFn,
  order: ["filter", "sort", "map"],
})
```

Notice how we customized the `order` array here. This is done because the default order applies the `sort` function last. While this normally works well, it would cause unintended behavior here, since we changed the first characters of all display names. In our example, `sort` would be applied based off the emoji prefix instead of the first _real_ character.

To fix this, we just changed around the order and apply the `sort` function before changing the display names in the `map` function.

> [!tip]
> When writing more complicated functions, the `layout` file can start to look very cramped.
> You can fix this by defining your functions in another file.
>
> ```ts title="functions.ts"
> import { Options } from "./quartz/components/ExplorerNode"
> export const mapFn: Options["mapFn"] = (node) => {
>   // implement your function here
> }
> export const filterFn: Options["filterFn"] = (node) => {
>   // implement your function here
> }
> export const sortFn: Options["sortFn"] = (a, b) => {
>   // implement your function here
> }
> ```
>
> You can then import them like this:
>
> ```ts title="quartz.layout.ts"

> > import { mapFn, filterFn, sortFn } from "./path/to/your/functions"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> import { mapFn, filterFn, sortFn } from "./functions.ts"
```

above example annotates `functions.ts` as in the root folder already
